---
layout: post
title: "Surveying the Javascript Landscape"
date: 2015-05-28 09:38
comments: true
categories:
---

Taking a break from my usual Ruby work, I did a "recovery sprint" and explored some Javascript. My skills are weak at best
in this area and it was my intention to improve them by learning some new technologies.

## Node.js

I've been hearing a lot about Node, and vaguely knew what I was. There's a lot out there and
even more about what you can do with it. In short, it's a web application platform built on Chrome's javascript
runtime environment. It's a single process application, which seems weird at first, but that's the way it works and it work
well.

There are tons of great tutorials on Node at [Node School](http://nodeschool.io/). The one I did was "learnyounode" which is
a series of 13 exercises. It's pretty simple, although I got annoyed a few times and grabbed the answers from
[learnyounode-solutions](https://github.com/frasertweedale/learnyounode-solutions). Hey, I'm not getting graded on this or
anything. It's easy to get started:

    brew install npm
    npm install -g learnyounode
    learnyounode

And you're off and running. I posted [my solutions](https://github.com/awead/learnyounode) as well if you're intested.
However, I didn't go very deep into Node because I wanted to get a broader picture of the Javascript development landscape.

## Express.js

Coming from a Rails background, I was more interested in how you can leverage Node to create web applications. This led
me to [Express.js](http://expressjs.com/) which is pretty much exactly what a Rails developer might expect if they were
looking for Node on "Rails."

Express has an app generator that will build a complete application structure in a directory. From there, you can start
the application and begin customizing routes and content. It features a routing mechanism and a template language called
Jade, although you can supply others if you wish. In short, to start a new Express app:

    npm install express
    npm install express-generator -g
    express my-app
    cd my-app
    npm install
    npm start

It even starts up the webserver on the usual 3000 port. The similarities with Rails were actually a little eerie. Express
isn't a full MVC framework, though, it's more like VC, or just V for that matter. As-is, Express gives you views and routes
so it's very easy to start creating simple static pages or pages that are transformed using JSON data objects.

For example, if I wanted to add a simple "About me" page to my base Express application, I create a route:

``` javascript
var express = require('express');
var router = express.Router();

/* GET about page */
router.get('/', function(req, res, next) {
  res.render('about', { title: 'About' });
});

module.exports = router;

```

Because the route file is `about.js` it's going to respond to GET requests at `/about` which is why the path is only "/"
on line 5. After that, it's just passing a JSON object to the view template, which looks like:

``` javascript
extends layout

block content
  h1= title
  p About me
```

In order to have the page render, we'll need to wire it up to our application. Add these lines in the
relevant locations of your `app.js` file:


    var about = require('./routes/about');

    app.use('/about', about);


Now you can restart the server and view the page. Not much there, but you get the idea. I left it very basic because
I was more intested in...

## Testing

Coming from Rails, I've had TDD/BDD beaten into my head so it was very hard for me to doing anything without asking myself
"Where is this tested?" To answer that, you have to look at some testing frameworks. I started with
[expect.js](https://github.com/Automattic/expect.js) which has the syntax you might _expect_ (heh) with Rspec. However,
getting it wired up in Express required a few additional bits: [Mocha](http://mochajs.org/) and
[superagent](https://github.com/visionmedia/superagent). Expect.js provides the language for testing, Mocha provides the
framework, which is a lot like Rspec and uses "it" and "describe" blocks. Superagent is a client-side HTTP request library
that is making the actual calls to your app.

Here's how I put it all together


    npm install expect.js superagent
    npm install -g mocha
    mkdir test
    mocha

After executing that last command, it will run mocha and report "0 passing" tests. So, let's add one for our about page:

``` javascript
var expect = require('expect.js');
var request = require('superagent');

describe('the about page', function() {
  it('returns information about me', function(done) {
    request
      .get('/about')
      .end(function(err, res){
        expect(res.body).to.contain('About me');
      });
      done();
  });
});

```

Superagent makes the get request and using expect.js we can parse the body of the response for the expected content. Note:
I was getting the warning "double callback!" which may be a bug, but I'm not sure. Everywhere on the net, this seems to be
the accepted syntax, so take this for what it's worth.

### Jasmine

Another testing method is to use [Jasmine](http://jasmine.github.io/2.3/node.html) which basically does the same as above,
even with some of the same dependencies, but slightly differently. To setup, let use our `package.json` the way it's meant
to be and specify our dependencies. Add these lines to the `dependencies` key:

    "jasmine-node": "~>1.14",
    "request": "~2.56"

Then run:

    npm install
    jasmine init

Jasmine follows Rspec a little more closely and creates a `spec` directory and assumes you'll name your tests with the
`_spec` extension. To test our about page using Jasmine:

``` javascript
var request = require('request');

it("renders the about page", function(done) {
  request("http://localhost:3000/about", function(error, response, body){
    expect(body).toContain("About me");
    done();
  });
});

```

One thing to note, this test will only pass if your app.js is actually running. There are ways to wrap this so that
Jasmine will start up the app first before testing.

## M is for Model

The last bits to add into this mix are getting Express to model data in a ORM kind of way like Rails does. Again, there are
lots to choose from here: Bookshelf, Backbone, Mongoose, Persistence, Sequelize, and the list goes on.

Many of these cater to one particular database, such as [Mongoose](http://mongoosejs.com/) connecting to MongoDB. There's
a specific platform that wraps these together: [MEAN](http://mean.io/) which stands for MongoDB, Express, Angular.js, and Node.js.
It's reminiscent of LAMP.

[Backbone.js](http://documentcloud.github.io/backbone/) seems to be the most data agnostic, while others like Mongoose,
focus on specific sources. For example, [Sequelize](http://docs.sequelizejs.com/en/latest/) does PostGRESql and MySQL.

## Too Many Choices?

[Angular.js](https://angularjs.org/) is a popular choice as a fully-fledged MVC framework for Javascript, and it can be
pulled into the mix in Express apps, as MEAN shows above. Lastly, Express isn't the only choice for platforms.
[react.js](https://facebook.github.io/react/) is another "V" option in the MVC of the Javascript world.
